there
this book is a history of debt
then but it also uses the history as a
way of asking fundamental questions
about what human beings and human
society are or could be like
what we actually do ow to each other
what it even means to ask that question
as a result the book begins by
attempting to puncture a series of myths
not only the myth of bada which is taken
up in the first chapter but also rival
myths about primordial debts to gods
alter the state that in one way another
form the basis of our common sense
assumptions about the nature of economy
and society in that common sense view
the state and the market
tower above all else as diametrically
opposed principles
historical reality however
reveals that they were born together and
have always been intertwined the one
thing that all these misconceptions have
in common we will find is that they tend
to reduce all human relations to
exchange as if it our ties to society
even to the cosmos itself
can be imagined in the same terms as a
business deal wouldn't that again i know
with the orange one
this leads to another question if not
exchange then what
i'll begin to answer this question by
drawing on the fruits of anthropology to
describe a view of the moral basis of
economic life and then return to the
question of the origins of money to
demonstrate how the very principle of
exchange emerged largely as an effect of
violence but the real origins of money
are to be found in crime and recompense
war and slavery honor debt and
redemption